blog on quarkus and red hat evolving strategy (#2248)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2024-03-03.quarkus-redhat-strategy.adoc

---
layout: post
title: 'Quarkus & Red Hat''s evolving middleware strategy'

> date: 2025-03-03

Reviewer: Should be updated.

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2025-03-13
```

tags: announcement

> synopsis: 'Information about the recent announcement and the future of Quarkus'

Reviewer 2: And its influence on the cure of Quarkus

Author: you mean like this ?

```suggestion
synopsis: 'Information about the recent announcement and its influence on Quarkus'
```

Reviewer 2: yes

author: maxandersen
---

> Over the past weeks, we've received questions about the https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/evolving-our-middleware-strategy[recent announcement] that Red Hat's Middleware engineering and product teams, which includes Quarkus, are moving to IBM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Over the past weeks, we've received questions about the https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/evolving-our-middleware-strategy[recent announcement] that Red Hat's Middleware engineering and product teams, which include Quarkus, are moving to IBM.
```

> We want to take this to acknowledge this change while reaffirming what has always been true:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We want to take this opportunity to acknowledge this change while reaffirming what has always been true:
```

*Quarkus is an open-source project driven by a global community of contributors, spanning companies, individuals, and open-source enthusiasts.*

From its inception, Quarkus has been shaped by *real-world adoption* across industries, with companies https://quarkus.io/userstories/[sharing their user-stories], leveraging Quarkus's unmatched performance and developer joy in the Java ecosystem. We recently celebrated our https://quarkus.io/1000contributors/[*1000th contributor milestone*], a testament to the strength of this diverse and thriving community.

> IBM and Red Hat have clearly communicated that the current and future contributions to Quarkus are a key component of the middleware strategy. IBM has already been an active contributor to Quarkus, and we look forward to increased collaboration - alongside the many other individuals and companies who contribute, innovate, and drive Quarkus forward.

Reviewer 2: Can we say that we don’t anticipate any lowering of contribution ?

Reviewer 2: Could we add something like

Spezking as Quarkus contributors employed by red hat, we love our project and intend to keep making it awesome.

Author: > Can we say that we don’t anticipate any lowering of contribution ?

the "increased collaboration" was meant to be but how about:

```suggestion
IBM and Red Hat have clearly communicated that the current and future contributions to Quarkus are a key component of the middleware strategy. IBM has already been an active contributor to Quarkus, and we look forward to increased contribution - alongside the many other individuals and companies who contribute, innovate, and drive Quarkus forward.
```

Reviewer 2: To be honest, it's washed out in a long sentence which is washed out in a long paragraph. A one word change does not change the balance I feel.

Author: ive merged what I think yours were - if not do please provide a suggestion :)

Reviewer 3: `s/of the middleware strategy/of their middleware strategy/`

> Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project.

Reviewer 2: I’d add. 
(Yeah the timing looks suspicious but the foundation move decision is unrelated, if anything it reaffirms the power of a foundation hosted project _add link to blog about our reasons_)

Reviewer 2: This blog is avoid shining light on the elephant in the room. I think the foundation move is part of that elephant so lets make it clear but concise )

> Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project.

Author: can you make a suggestion ?I thought you were referring to timing being coincidental. faster if you make one.

> Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project.

Reviewer 2: The move to the foundation and Red Hat/IBM move could look suspicious timing wise but the two are unrelated.
We described our reason in a [previous blog post](/blog/quarkus-in-a-foundation/) but, if anything, this announcement reaffirms the importance of a foundation hosted project for its stability.

> Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project.

Author: updated:

```suggestion
Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project. The move to the foundation and Red Hat/IBM move could look suspicious timing-wise wise but the two are unrelated. We described our reasons in a [previous blog post](/blog/quarkus-in-a-foundation/), but if anything, this announcement reaffirms the importance of a foundation-hosted project for its stability. 
```

> Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project. The move to the foundation and Red Hat/IBM move could look suspicious timing-wise wise but the two are unrelated. We described our reasons in a [previous blog post](/blog/quarkus-in-a-foundation/), but if anything, this announcement reaffirms the importance of a foundation-hosted project for its stability. 

Reviewer: Too many 'wise'

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, *Quarkus is already on the path to becoming part of https://www.commonhaus.org/[Commonhaus] an open-source foundation*, further ensuring its long-term independence and success as a truly community-driven project. The move to the foundation and the Red Hat/IBM move could look suspicious timing-wise, but the two are unrelated. We described our reasons in a [previous blog post](/blog/quarkus-in-a-foundation/), but if anything, this announcement reaffirms the importance of a foundation-hosted project for its stability. 
```
